1.What is Brain Drain? [1]

	The emigration of highly trained or qualified people from a particular country to another due to the existence of favorable professional opportunities in other countries, or from a desire to seek a higher standard of living.
	Brain drain causes countries, industries, and organizations to lose a core portion of valuable individuals.







2.Root cause of India facing Brain Drain [2][3]
(They are often seen in developing countries)
        Higher education is one of the major reasons for permanent immigration. 
	Considering the recent scenario of sky-rocketing cut-offs for admissions reaching close to 100% in top Indian universities, many students end up compromising on their dream of occupying a seat in any of the prestigious Indian universities. eg.JBIMS,IIT
	This urges them to explore the scope of higher education abroad and secure a place in good universities as they have an advantage over students from other countries in terms of skills and knowledge. 
	
	If you are an entrepreneur, then it’s challenging to work here as the economic condition of our nation is very bad.
In India, for every profit of Rs 100 you made, you are supposed to give away 98 INR to govt and keep only Rs 2 for yourself.
	Why would entrepreneurs of our nation work in such a ridiculous condition?
Our talented entrepreneur does not want to leave our nation, but policies drag them out.


	In India, you can get any Job with just a recommendation from a higher officer that’s it.
You don’t get a job by clearing exam and interview because this is India. 
	Therefore, there is no surprise why our people are more successful in foreign because they value talent, not money. eg. Sundar Pichai(GOOGLE) , Satya Nadella(Microsoft).
	
	
	Jobs are not matching the growing population, and thousands of engineer remain unemployed, and they have no option to fly to foreign as they welcome them with joy.
	
	
	At present, a lot of educational institutions in the country are giving importance to textbook education and theoretical learning which fails to equip students with skills that will make them job-ready. 
	This ends up creating a wide gap between industry requirements and academic knowledge. 
As per the latest India Skill Report, only 47% of students coming out of educational institutions in India are employable.  



	If you work even as a Cashier or on petrol pump in USA or Canada, still you going to earn more than an average engineer in India.
	The lifestyle of foreign is better than the lifestyle of India. 
	
In foreign countries, you have new advancement and new technology, and moreover, there is no corruption and rape percentage is few as compared to India.
	







3.Effects of the brain drain on welfare and growth








4.How to overcome Brain Drain - Provide Soln for Brain Drain	[4]

For the balance of power and for the staggered development of the world, it is very important to stop
the phenomena of brain-drain. 
	This will help a particular country to use all local skilled citizens for development and proliferation. 
But to hold these skilled workers at their native places, it is also important to provide them enough work opportunities and living facilities. 
	For this purpose, developed nations should help developing countries with necessary money and resources. 
So that each and every human of this planet can have good standard of living and each and every nation can introduce itself as a developed nation. 
	The UNDP estimates that India loses $2 billion a year because of the emigration of computer experts to the U.S. Indian students going abroad for their higher studies costs India a foreign exchange outflow of $10 billion annually.
	These statistics clearly shows the “human capital flight” of our country.
This scenario must change for the sustainable growth of the nation. 







5.Governments initiatives taken to handle this situation - [2]

While India is putting its best foot forward to curb brain drain by prioritising skill development through its National Skill Development Mission aiming to train approximately 400 million people across the country by 2022, stopping the movement completely won’t be possible. 

The key is to simply emphasise evolving skills in the workforce through the right training programmes that will help in strengthening the country’s human capital.

With better human capital presence, India will indeed reach new levels of inclusive growth and sustainable development.






6.Conclusion
	





	


Sources/References: 

1.https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/brain_drain.asp
2.https://www.sundayguardianlive.com/lifestyle/brain-drain-becoming-cause-concern-india
3.https://lifehacks.io/5-reason-for-indias-brain-drain/
4.http://www.ijhssi.org/papers/v2(5)/version-3/C251217.pdf







TODO: We can take reference of 4th citation for creating ppt.
