1) Display total number of records in Emp table?			//check

2) Display emp table with salary descending order?			//check

3) Display all the records in emp table order by ascending deptno, descending salary?		//check

4) Display all employees with how many years they have been servicing in the company? 		//check

5) Add 3 months with hiredate in EMP table and display the result?					//check			

6) Find the date, 15 days after today’s date.								//check

7) Write a query to display current date?								//check

8) Display distinct job from emp table?								//check

9) Display all the records in emp table where employee hired after '1981-12-03' and before '1987-09-28'?  //check

10) Write a query that displays the employee’s names with the first letter capitalized and all other letters lowercase for all employees whose name starts with J, A, or M											//check

11) Display all jobs that are in department 10. Include the location of department in the output.     //check

12) Write a query to display the employee name, department name of all employees who earn a commission //check

13) Display the empno, ename, sal, and salary increased by 15%.   						//check
 
14) Display ename, sal, grade. Use emp, salgrade table

15) Display all employees and corresponding managers							//check

16) Display all the departments where employee salary greater then average salary of that department.  //check

17) Display employees where length of ename is 5							//check

18) Display all employees where ename start with J and ends with S					//check

19) Display all employees where employee does not belong to 10,20,40					//check
		
20) Display all employees where jobs does not belong to PRESIDENT and MANAGER?			//check

21) Display all three figures salary in emp table							//check

22) Display all records in emp table for employee who does not receive any commission              //check

23) Display all ename where first character could be anything, but second character should be L?	//check

24) Display nth highest and nth lowest salary in emp table?						//check

25) Display all the departments where department has 3 employees?					//check

26) Display emp name and corresponding subordinates. Use CONNECT BY clause.

27) Display all ename, sal, deptno,dname from emp, dept table where all department which has employees as well as department does not have any employees. This query should include non matching rows.

28) Display all ename, sal, deptno from emp, dept table where all employees which has matching department as well as employee does not have any departments. This query should include non matching rows.

Note: In the below query, employee will always have matching record in dept table. Emp, dept table may not be good example to answer this question.

29) Display all ename, sal, deptno from emp, dept table where all employees which has matching and non matching department as well as all departments in dept table which has matching and non matching employees. This query should include non matching rows on both the tables. 

Note: In the below query, employee will always have matching record in dept table. Emp, dept table may not be good example to answer this question.

30) Display all ename, empno, dname, loc from emp, dept table without joining two tables

31) Display all the departments where department does not have any employees

32) Display all the departments where department does have atleast one employee

33) Display all employees those who are not managers?

34) Display ename, deptno from emp table with format of {ename} belongs to {deptno}

35) Display total number of employees hired for 1980,1981,1982. The output should be in one record.

36) Display ename, deptno from employee table. Also add another column in the same query and it should display ten for dept 10, twenty for dept 20, thirty for dept 30, fourty for dept 40

37) Display all the records in emp table. The ename should be lower case. The job first character should be upper case and rest of the character in job field should be lower case.

38) Display all employees those who have joined in first week of the month ?

39) Display all empoyees those who have joined in the 49th week of the year?

40) Display empno, deptno, salary, salary difference between current record and previous record in emp table. Deptno should be in descending order.

41) Create table emp1 and copy the emp table for deptno 10 while creating the table

42) Create table emp2 with same structure of emp table. Do not copy the data

43) Insert new record in emp1 table, Merge the emp1 table on emp table.

44) Display all the records for deptno which belongs to employee name JAMES? 

45) Display all the records in emp table where salary should be less then or equal to ADAMS salary?

46) Display all employees those were joined before employee WARD joined?

47) Display all subordinate those who are working under BLAKE?

48) Display all subordinate(all levels) for employee BLAKE?

49) Display all record in emp table for deptno which belongs to KING's Job? 

50) Write a SQL statement to increase the salary of employees under the department 40, 90 and 110 according to the company rules that, salary will be increased by 25% for the department 40, 15% for department 90 and 10% for the department 110 and the rest of the departments will remain same.

51) Display list of ename those who have joined in Year 81 as MANAGER?

52) Display who is making highest commission?

53) Display who is senior most employee? How many years has been working?

54) Display who is most experienced and least experienced employee?

55) Display ename, sal, grade, dname, loc for each employee.

56) Display all employee whose location is DALLAS?

57) Display ename, job, dname, deptno for each employee by using INLINE view?

58) List ename, job, sal and department of all employees whose salary is not within the salary grade?

59) Use EMP and EMP1 table. Query should have only three columns. Display empno,ename,sal from both tables inluding duplicates. 

60) Display the employees for empno which belongs to job PRESIDENT?
